You already mentioned packages, okay?That
the package is a group of files in
the same folder, we define the name of
the package at the top of the file, and
we can import other packages.
We haven't seen that yet, but
So for that we use the import keyword, and
within quotes, we the name of
the package that we're importing,
the package can be a built-in
package from the standard library.
It can be our own package that we will do
in a minute, or it can be a dependency
that we are downloading from the web,
another dependency, okay?
It's just the same, it's just a package.
And just remember that having at
least one go file with package
main is mandatory, and
that one should have a function main.
Before creating another package
to understand how packages work,
I'm going to create another file here and
let's call that functions.go any name,
that's just a random name.
In fact, you will see that unless
we're talking about the go.mod that's
the metadata for the module, the rest
of the go files, they can use any name,
we don't have a convention on that.
And I'm going to use the same package,
can I use the same package
name on different files?
Yes, the only condition is that
they must be on the same folder.
But yeah, I can create another function
here, I type JavaScript, no, it's func.
And I can say, for example, here,
I wanna print some data, and
then I'm going to print some data,
whatever.
Hello, and we will see in
a minute how we're going to,
we will stop using print in just a few
minutes and you will understand why.
So if I save this,
of course it's complaining, why?
Because I'm not using the function,
but that's okay,
get in your mind that that's okay.
Now, I can go to main.go and
what if I want to use
that print data function,
how can I import that?
So, I need to import another package
using, as I mentioned before, import.
Well, actually, it's the same package,
because it's the same package,
I don't need to import anything,
it will just be there, I just execute it.
How does it know that it's there?
Because in the same package actually, the
go compiler will make different phases.
When the compiler is compiling the app,
it will first go over all the go files and
at the end, all the files that
are part of the same package,
it's like they are merged into one
big file, into one large file.
So a package is the only thing that
the compiler sees the code sees packages,
not files.
We separate content in files just for
our organization, not for
the compiler, not for the language.
This is like on C#, for example,
you can create partial classes
where one class is split into
several files this is kind of that.
A package in this case is like
the concept that we see, and
then we can split the content of that
package in as many files as we want.
The only restriction is they must of
course contain the same declaration on
the top, and
they should be in the same folder.
In this case, we're using a main package,
that's not the package that we
are defining, it's a package that
already exists on every go software.
On every go script, on every go module,
we always have a main package,
we are just adding functions
to that package, and
it's not just functions,
I can also create variables.
So I can create a name here,
or I can, look at this,
I'm not saying you will like this,
but I can create the name of my app.
Here is the frontend masters, it's
a variable, it's a global variable because
it's an in go we don't say global
variable, we say it's a package variable.
And it's a package variable,
that means that I can also
use it from here, can I?
Yes, because it's the same package, so
every function in the package
can access other functions or
other variables, constants, or
data types for the same package.
Yeah, maybe you don't like that, okay?
But that works.
If I execute this, by the way,
close this let me do this there we are,
if I execute this,
it says HelloWorldFrontend Masters, first,
can you see that everything is
in the same line without spaces?
So, if we execute this, so go run.
You can see it's working, but
we do have a problem, hello world,
we don't see separations, okay, why?
Because print is sending that to
the console without creating patroness
faces are new lines.
We have another version
it's called println,
that will add a new line at the end
typically we say print line.
This is coming from see if you have ever
seen see, so we have print and print line.
Print line, well maybe for
example we can use print here,
then, line after world and
also after name,
maybe we can add a space here,
something like that.
Now, it looks better,
it says, hello world and
a different line from the master, right?
But here you can see that we can split our
package content to insert several files.
And it will work I don't need to import
anything everything is visible, so
everything that was defined in the package
is visible for the whole package.
We'll start creating new packages
in a second, what's that?
That's a comment I brought the comment
no one asked, what is that?
That's a comment, and for comments
we use the same fee-based comments.
That's a line comment,
that's just double mean though this.
And also you can select like
a lot of code like that and
you can use the shortcut you in your
IDE for that will forward slash.
And also you can use these kinds of
comments as well as with JavaScript
as we'd see with PHP,
we are using the same kind of comments.
Yeah, you had a question?
>> I just wondered if it could get
confusing, if you're sharing functions and
variables across multiple
files in one big folder.
It seems like it could get kind of messy,
but I saw that in my visual studio code,
I can just use those tools in there to
go to the definition of a function.
>> Yeah, you can always,
first if you use control click or
command click over function, you can
go directly to that file on VS code,
so it depends on what you are doing,
you can get there.
If you add enough information in
your comments for your functions,
your variables,
you can use the tools that you're used
to in your IDE to see messages and help.
So but as you mentioned,
it's kind of messy, okay?
Creating variables like around,
that's why defining
everything in the package main might
not be the best of the ideas, so
that's why we can create our own packages,
we'll do that in a second.
So we can create our own packages for
small pieces and
then group in that package variables,
functions and
types that we know what type is yet, okay?
Makes sense?
Also that we've seen print and
print line, however,
we will stop using them soon,
this is only useful for
development purposes,
we shouldn't deploy this, why?
Not because deploying to the console
is bad because it's not bad,
that's not the case, but
print as a function is not guaranteed that
it's going to work and In every platform.
It's not guarantee that it's going
to work in every operating system,
so that's why it's not safe, it's just
a quick way to debug something, okay?
But we do have a safe way to print and
that way,
instead of VM print,
it's in a different package.
So I'm going to do that first manually
to show you how that works, but
then we will see that when we get used
to that, we don't do this manually.
We are going to import another package,
and the name of the package is fmt,
it's format that they call it fmt.
Some people say thumped we import thumped,
okay?
Anyway and you say it's complaining,
why it's complaining?
Because I imported the package and
I'm not using it, so anxiety.
So you can see here, it's imported and
not used, that's why it's complaining, so
it's okay, it's fine.
So now instead of using print,
we're going to use, this is how it works,
when you import a package,
everything that that package is exporting,
it's going to be available
under the name of the package.
I'm going to say this wrong from a go
point of view, but it's kind of an object
that has all the things that were
exported from the package, but
it's not really an object,
we don't have objects here.
So, you say fmt, and we use .syntax,
to access all the variables,
or the constants,
all the functions and
all the data types that were defined
as package that were
exported from that package.
And we do have one that says print,
and also we have a print line, so
we just change print the print
line with fmt.print, print line.
And if you pay attention that print
Hudson's more like different,
small but very important
difference it's using title case,
title case is when you start with capital
letters, and that's kind of mandatory.
That's one of the, probably the first
thing that you may not like initially,
so how do we know if a function
is going to be exported or not?
The way to define if a variable or
a function is public, so anyone
from the outside can use that is based
on the initial character of the name.
If it's uppercase, it's public, if it's
lowercase, it's private to the package.
So for example, in our print data,
if we look at this function,
if we wanna export that, so
other packages can use that,
I must move it to capital P,
if I don't do that it's private.
For those of you using OOP in Java,
or C# or PHP,
this is kind of using
the private keyword or
the public keyword kind of.
We don't have those keywords here,
we have a convention.
If the global function starts with
capital letters, it's public,
it's export, if not,
it's private to the package,
we will use this in our code in a minute,
okay?
You will see this in action.
Of course, now I have an hour
because I need to use capital B.
So we are changing completely, how,
naming guidelines work because
probably you're used to, we start,
property names and function names with
our case and class names with, well, no.
Here you can mix because the name, how
you start, the name defines visibility.
Okay, make sense?
>> Would you say the purpose of
that is for ease of programming?
>> Yeah, that's easy of code,
yeah, even if you don't feel that,
that's easier said first,
that from the from the three goals.
That's not changing compilation
speed that's not changing
execution speed that's changing.
Let's stop using a lot of keywords,
adding modifiers to the functions that we
keep it simple and also when you're real,
When you read the code and you see if you
read lowercase, you need to get used.
You need to train your brain into that
when you read something that is lowercase,
you know it's private immediately.